---
layout: default
title: Stuart Campbell &mdash; Software Engineer
---


# Work

I'm a senior engineer that strives to craft simple, robust software. I work
closely with product managers and designers, leading small teams to produce
high-quality products that people love to use.

I'm a good communicator with an easy-going personality. I'm attentive to detail,
focused, and pragmatic.

My technical background is varied, and in recent years I've specialised in
building high-traffic, distributed web systems, primarily built with Ruby on
Rails, AWS, Docker, and Unix-like operating systems.

My other technical interests include Clojure, Python and React. Some examples
can be found on [my GitHub profile][gh].


## Spot

 * Senior Software Engineer (2016&mdash;)

[Spot][spot] recommends places according to the friends and experts you trust.
I'm working on the backend systems that support the [mobile app][spot-app],
including:

 * the API that powers the app and public website. This is a Node.js (Restify)
   app, backed by Postgres and Elasticsearch. It exposes a GraphQL-like
   interface to enable flexible and batch-efficient fetching of multiple
   (possibly nested) resources in a single request.
 * the content ingestion pipeline. This is also a Node.js system, running on
   AWS, that discovers venue data and expert reviews by crawling and parsing the
   web.

## 99designs

 * Senior Software Engineer (2013&mdash;2016)
 * Software Engineer (2012&mdash;2013)

[99designs][99d] is the world's largest online graphic design marketplace, with
a community of over a million registered designers.

I was the lead software engineer in 99designs' Oakland, CA office. The team
focused on the design- and designer-oriented parts of the platform. Some of the
things we built include:

 * [Discover][99d-discover] &mdash; showcases designs from the community and
   provides design inspiration for potential customers. This is a Rails app,
   running via Docker on AWS, and backed by hosted Elasticsearch.
 * [Profiles][99d-profiles] &mdash; individual designer portfolios. Designers
   can curate their cover images, crop and rearrange their designs, and offer
   fixed-price [design services][99d-services] to potential clients.

I was previously the lead developer of [Projects][99d-projects], a 1-to-1 design
collaboration platform that has grown into a significant revenue generator for
99designs.

I've also written [various][99d-blog1] [articles][99d-blog2] for 99designs'
engineering blog, and [open-sourced][99d-oss1] [several][99d-oss2]
[internal][99d-oss3] [libraries][99d-oss4].


## Rubicon Water

 * Software Engineer (2009&mdash;2012)

[Rubicon Water][rubicon] builds fully automated irrigation networks, including
remotely-operated control gates, demand management systems, and online ordering
for water consumers.

At Rubicon I built J2EE desktop and web applications for water authorities and
consumers in regional Australia. I was the lead engineer of a JSF web interface
to the SCADAConnect system, which provided monitoring and control of remote
hardware. I also built desktop-based reporting tools for the Demand Management
System, which gives water authorities high-level insight into irrigation needs.


## DWS Advanced Business Solutions

 * Software Consultant (2007&mdash;2009)

[DWS][dws] is a Melbourne-based consultancy, providing software development
services for various companies including major telecommunications and
infrastructure providers.

I worked in many different roles for various clients, including:

 * Maintenance of Perl- and Oracle-based ETL pipelines for the data warehouse of
   a major telecommunications provider.
 * Development of a J2EE web-based frontend to a complex workflow for a
   metropolitan electricity supplier.
 * Provisioning and administration of Linux-based production environments.


## Future Medium

 * Web Developer (2004&mdash;2007)

Future Medium was a web agency based in Hobart, Tasmania, focused mainly on
building brochure sites for local private businesses and state government
departments.

I built websites using the in-house Java-based (initially Perl-based) CMS,
converting complex visual designs into standards-based HTML and CSS.

I was also subcontracted to [Squiz][squiz] for about a year, performing similar
work in their PHP-based CMS.


## Education

 * Bachelor of Computing, University of Tasmania (2001&mdash;2003)


## United States work authorisation

I'm eligible for the E-3 visa, an Australian-specific work visa which takes
1&mdash;3 weeks to get. See [this E-3 infographic][e3] for more information.


 [gh]: https://github.com/harto
 [99d]: https://99designs.com/
 [99d-discover]: https://99designs.com/discover
 [99d-profiles]: https://99designs.com/profiles/489015
 [99d-services]: https://99designs.com/profiles/ludibes/services
 [99d-projects]: https://99designs.com/projects
 [99d-blog1]: http://99designs.com/tech-blog/blog/2013/07/01/thumbnailing-with-thumbor/
 [99d-blog2]: http://99designs.com/tech-blog/blog/2013/01/05/github-survivor/
 [99d-oss1]: https://github.com/99designs/phumbor
 [99d-oss2]: https://github.com/99designs/repl-bundle
 [99d-oss3]: https://github.com/99designs/sipht
 [99d-oss4]: https://github.com/99designs/githubsurvivor
 [rubicon]: https://www.rubiconwater.com/
 [dws]: http://www.dws.com.au/
 [spot]: http://spot.com/
 [spot-app]: https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/spot-best-places-according/id1054510328
 [squiz]: https://www.squiz.net/
 [e3]: http://gdaysf.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/02/E3-visa-infographic.png
